## Calculating CVA for a Portfolio of Interest Rate Swaps

We set the stage by using pre-calibrated one-factor Hull-White (1990) model to simulate short rate paths using Monte Carlo. We then construct the discount curves, consistent with affine term structure, at each node on the simulation grid, using closed-form solution of the pricing PDE. We estimate the numerical error introduced to the problem by discrete approximation of instantaneous forward curve and find the appropriate granularity to minimize it. We go on to produce the distribution of both collateralized and uncollateralized mark-to-market exposure for the given interest rate swaps portfolio under single-curve framework. We compute the CVA charges in both cases using the default probabilities implied from the CDS curve. We conclude by introducing stochastic volatility following Cox-Ingersoll-Ross (1985) process to the short-rate simulation and calculating CVA’s vega numerically using finite differences.

## Calibrating CEV and Merton's Jump-Diffusion models via Fourier-based Option Pricing

In this project, we combine global and local optimization techniques to obtain parameter sets for CEV and Jump-Diffusion SDEs, using the dataset of AMZN exchange-traded options. In order to benchmark the performance of Fourier-based option pricing, we first build Monte Carlo simulation engine, using antithetic variables to reduce the variance of our estimates. We then implement Heston (1993) approach to representing a call option price in the Black-Scholes-type formula for the CEV model and the more compact Lewis (2001) valuation formula for Merton Jump-Diffusion model. We also compare the accuracy of Gauss-Lobatto and Gauss-Laguerre quadrature schemes by varying the number of nodes and matching the results against our MC estimate and Black-Scholes prices in the limiting cases. We conclude by using calibrated models to estimate the Greeks numerically and compare them to those derived analytically.
